# React Native Mobile Chat App

## Objective
To build a chat app for mobile devices using React Native. The app will provide users with a chat interface and options to share images and their location.

## Context
With the increasing use of mobile devices for daily tasks, there is a growing demand for high-quality mobile apps. React Native allows for building and maintaining mobile applications for both iOS and Android using a single codebase. This project uses React Native, Expo, and Google Firestore Database to build a chat app demonstrating proficiency in JavaScript mobile development.

## User Stories
- **As a new user**, I want to be able to easily enter a chat room so I can quickly start talking to my friends and family.
- **As a user**, I want to be able to send messages to my friends and family members to exchange the latest news.
- **As a user**, I want to send images to my friends to show them what I’m currently doing.
- **As a user**, I want to share my location with my friends to show them where I am.
- **As a user**, I want to be able to read my messages offline so I can reread conversations at any time.
- **As a user with a visual impairment**, I want to use a chat app that is compatible with a screen reader so that I can engage with a chat interface.

## Key Features
- A page where users can enter their name and choose a background color for the chat screen before joining the chat.
- A chat screen displaying the conversation, with an input field and a submit button.
- Options to send images and location data.
- Online and offline data storage.
- Authentication of users anonymously via Google Firebase.

## Technical Requirements
- Written in React Native.
- Developed using Expo.
- Styled according to the provided screen design.
- Chat conversations stored in Google Firestore Database.
- Anonymous user authentication via Google Firebase.
- Local storage of chat conversations.
- Image picking and sending from the phone’s image library.
- Image capturing with the device’s camera app and sending.
- Images stored in Firebase Cloud Storage.
- Ability to read and send the user’s location data.
- Location data sent via chat in a map view.
- Chat interface and functionality created using the Gifted Chat library.
- Comprehensive codebase comments.

## Screen Design & Assets
- **Vertical and horizontal spacing**: evenly distributed
- **App title**: font size 45, font weight 600, font color #FFFFFF
- **“Your name”**: font size 16, font weight 300, font color #757083, 50% opacity
- **“Choose background color”**: font size 16, font weight 300, font color #757083, 100% opacity
- **Color options HEX codes**: #090C08, #474056, #8A95A5, #B9C6AE
- **Start chatting button**: font size 16, font weight 600, font color #FFFFFF, button color #757083

## Project Deliverables
### Exercise 1 
- Setting up the development environment, creating the app layout, and styling the start screen.
### Exercise 2: 
- Building the chat screen and functionality using the Gifted Chat library.
### Exercise 3: 
- User authentication with Firebase and storing conversations in Firestore.
### Exercise 4: 
- Storing chats locally using asyncStorage, and ensuring offline access to messages.
### Exercise 5: 
- Implementing image picking and capturing, storing images in Firebase Cloud Storage, sending images via chat, and adding location sharing in a map view.

## Installation
1. **Clone the repository**: git clone https://github.com/devmcdonough/chat
2. **Install dependencies**: npm install
3. **Start the Expo development server**: npx expo start

## Usage
**1. Running on an Emulator:**
- Ensure you have an Android or iOS emulator running.
- Press a (for Android) or i (for iOS) in the Expo CLI to start the app on the emulator.

**2. Running on a Physical Device:**
- Install the Expo Go app from the App Store or Google Play.
- Scan the QR code generated by npx expo start to run the app on your device.

## Contributing
1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a new branch**: 
git checkout -b chat/new-branch
3. **Make your changes and commit them**: 
git commit -m "Add your feature"
4. **Push to the branch**: 
git push origin feature/new-feature
5. **Create a pull request**

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License

## Acknowledgements
- [React Native](https://reactnative.dev/)
- [Expo](https://expo.dev/)
- [Firebase](https://firebase.google.com/)
- [Gifted Chat](https://github.com/FaridSafi/react-native-gifted-chat)